---
play_number: 1
title: Choose a challenge
---

The Opportunity Project is about solving real-world problems facing individuals and communities, like creating tools that help unemployed Americans find nearby jobs that match their skills, low-income families find affordable homes accessible to transportation and quality schools, and local leaders use information to advocate for neighborhood resources. You can identify an issue to focus on from a range of sources, and we encourage you to be concrete in defining the problems you want to solve.


### Checklist
1. To identify a meaningful challenge, you might want to connect with federal agencies, local leaders, community groups or other subject matter experts who are mission-driven and close to challenges on the ground. 
2. Make sure to choose a challenge where a new digital tool that uses federal and local data would be helpful.  
3. Ask yourself whether it is realistic for you to develop something that could have a meaningful impact on this challenge.
4.  Make a list of collaborators you want to work with, who have diverse knowledge and skills to create a user-centered tool with a path to adoption, which might include data experts, techies, community leaders, and people who are the target users of the tool.  

### Resources
- [Challenges articulated by federal agencies](https://data.world/opportunity/problem-statements) to spur the development of new digital tools that address national priorities. We want teams to continue identifying creative new approaches to address these challenges in communities around the country. 
- Detailed user-scenarios offered through the Opportunity Project that can help you identify real-world challenges that affect people’s lives.
- The challenge can also come from a newly released dataset or [combination of datasets](http://opportunity.census.gov/build.html#datainventory) that allow for new ways to understand and solve important problems. For example, the Department of Labor worked with the University of Chicago to release an exciting new API which combines skills data with labor market data. Tech teams collaborated with policy-makers to build tools that, in addition to their direct impact on users, showed what could be done when civic-minded people come together to ensure citizens are informed and engaged in their communities. 