---
play_number: 2
title: Team up
---

Collaboration is an essential part of the Opportunity Project process! You can team up with others before or after identifying a problem statement to be sure you have all the skills and perspectives you need to build a useful, high quality digital tool. Your goal is to recruit a team of people to work together, which might include software developers, data scientists, government leaders, community organizers, and intended end-users for your tool.

### Checklist
- Connect with a diverse set of collaborators with the knowledge and skills to create a user-centered tool with a path to adoption. Make sure these partners include people who work directly on issues related to your challenge and ideally people experiencing the problem directly, or people who work closely with them. Its also great to find people with user-centered design experience if you can find them.
- Universities can be a great place to start building your collaboration team since they are full of people with a wide variety of skills and perspectives, including community and policy experts and students with technical skills.
- Determine among the group of your team who will maintain the tool once it’s built and who will make sure it gets in the hands of end-users. If you realize that you don't have the right people on your team to ensure that, then find them and add them to the group!

### Resources
- If you’re looking for additional tech talent, you can also go to your local tech Meetups or [Code for America Brigade](http://brigade.codeforamerica.org/brigade/list) if there is one in your community.  
- Join the Opportunity Project online Slack community to recruit collaborators and chat with others. Start a conversation by location, issue, or anything else! 
- Sign up on our [listserv](http://eepurl.com/cd6yor), select how you’d like to get involved, and stay tuned. We will be in touch with opportunities to engage.
