---
play_number: 3
title: Co-create the vision
---


Collaborate to identify user needs and create a use case that outlines who you are targeting and how they might interact with a solution to address the challenge you selected. We value co-creation – working directly with end users of the tool, so that you’re building *with* them, and not just *for* them. The problems you’re going to tackle when working to make communities more equitable are complex, and no one person has all the answers. Working together with a diverse team, including people who are experiencing the problem directly, will help you to recognize your blind spots. 

### Checklist
- Work with subject matter experts and end-users to understand the challenge and the gaps that you might help fill. Answer questions such as: How do people experience the problem? Do they have any tools to help them currently? What tools do they wish they had?  
-	Create a detailed use-case to guide your efforts.
-	Remember what Jakob Nielsen once said, "One of usability’s most hard-earned lessons is that ‘you are not the user.’ If you work on a development project, you’re atypical by definition. Design to optimize the user experience for outsiders, not insiders."

### Resources
- Use the [user-scenarios](http://opportunity.census.gov/build.html#userscenarios) on our site as a starting point – these scenarios provide a detailed snapshot of some important problems that have already been defined.
-	Watch this [user-centered design training](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PR0u_Y7d63E) that Exygy created for Opportunity Project participants. 


