---
play_number: 5
title: Build iteratively and collaboratively
---

Once you identify a problem to tackle, the end users your tool will serve, and the data you will use, start building and sharing your experience with the Opportunity Project community! Work collaboratively to build a software product, including many voices and seeking feedback as much as possible throughout. You can use a sprint process to organize your time, like a semester, training program, or a software development sprint. For example, the Opportunity Project started with an eight-week software development sprint. Tech developers, experts, community leaders, people from federal and local government and others came together, chose problems to work on, and formed teams.  These groups talked regularly on Slack, and all came together in web hangouts every two weeks to demo their works in progress, ask questions, and share feedback. After eight weeks, they all launched their products together at the White House and have continued to improve them over time.

### Checklist
-	Engage target end users, advocates, and subject matter experts early and often in the design process. Collect feedback through user testing sessions or design demos.
-	Think about how you will track success and the reach of your tool, such as tracking number of sessions, downloads or users via [Google Analytics](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/1008015?hl=en).
-	Identify the path for adoption once the tool is released – how will you connect end users with your product?  
-	If you’re interested in replicating the Opportunity Project sprint process and timeline, here’s what it looks like week-by-week:
   0. Before kickoff: Identify your team and create a listserv and/or an online slack channel or other community where everyone can chat.
   1. Week 1: Choose problem statements.
   2. Week 2: Dig into the data and start designing and building.
   3. Week 3: Perform alpha demo of the tool to get early feedback from a diverse audience of end users, subject matter experts, government employees, and others. Early demos of [Minimum Viable Products](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product) are part of the [lean start-up methodology](http://theleanstartup.com/principles) and lead to faster value delivered to users.
   4. Week 4: Continue building based on feedback received from alpha demo.
   5. Week 5: Do another demo and share improved version of the tool. Get more feedback, particularly from end users of the tool.
   6. Week 6: Keep building and perform interactive user testing sessions.
   7. Week 7:  Get ready to share the tools with the world. De-bug. Plan how to share the final products.
   8. Week 8:  Get everyone involved in the process  together to launch final products.
   9. Week 9 and beyond: Continue to improve the tools, get the word out, share the product with the target end users, and measure your impact.

NB: Although the Opportunity Project outlines an eight-week sprint process, many teams prefer 12-week timelines. Feel free to adjust your project plan and milestones based on what your team is comfortable with.

### Resources
-	Identify community leaders and other collaborators on Slack.
-	Software developers should also use  [GitHub](https://github.com/uscensusbureau/opportunity) to share code, ask questions, post new suggested data sets, share feedback on data, and more. Github is also an invaluable tool for logging issues or bug fixes that need to be addressed.
